
1) Download the all the files from the folder 'Mortality_analysis' into a folder in you computer and set it as the working directory for operation in R/RStudio.

2) Run the codes in the script 'Covariate_generation.R' to read and generate the covariate data for our model. 
This script takes as inputs the following files:
    
    a) Countries_FSI.csv:    contains list of all 40 countries in order appearing in the covariate data
    b) GDP_YoY_perc.csv:     contains time seeries data on GDP year-on-year % change for a superset of countries containing 40 countries in our model.
    c) HC_exp_percGDP.csv:   contains time seeries data on Healthcare expenditure % of GDP for a superset of countries containing 40 countries in our model.
    d) CO2_emissions_pc.csv: contains time seeries data on CO2 emissions per-capita for a superset of countries containing 40 countries in our model.
    e) infmort.csv:          contains time seeries data on Infant mortality per 1000 live births for a superset of countries containing 40 countries in our model.
    f) HumanDevelopmentIndex(HDI).csv: contains time seeries data on Human Development Index for a superset of countries containing 40 countries in our model.
As outputs it produces:
    a) X_centerscale.csv, the 40x5 design matrix for our model. 

3) Run the codes in the script 'Response_generation.R' to read and generate the response data in our model. 
   

To run the FSI model, first we read all the functions from the following scripts:

1) data_functions.R
2) FSIAuxFunctions.R
3) FSIDenReg.R
4) LocWassRegAMP.R

Then we run the codes in the script 'Data_analyses.R' to build the models Global Fréchet and Local Fréchet models using each covariates considered in the model: 
Year-on-year percentage change in GDP, Healthcare expenditure as percentage of GDP, CO2 emissions in tonnes per capita, Infant mortality per 1000 births, Human 
Development Index; all for the year 2013. 

Then, run the codes in the script 'FSI_model.R' script. We obtain the bandwidth choice, then obtain the estimate the of index parameter using the chosen bandwidth, 
then obtain the MSPE (Mean Square Prediction Error) for FSI model for various test/train splits of the dataset. Apart from the FSI model, . These codes for these models are in the script 'Data_analyses.R'. 

To obtain the fréchet R-squared for various regression models, run the script 'Frechet_Rsquared.R'. 

